Slow Roasted Beef in a Spicy Aromatic Masala with Coconut bites and Curry leaves… Malayalee’s favorite Nadan Beef Ularthiyathu…!! 

Course: Side Dish
Cuisine: Indian
Keyword: beef roast, beef ularthiyathu, kerala beef fry
Servings: 4
Author: Akhila
Ingredients
2½ lb beef
25 shallots (thinly sliced)
2-3 green chilies (slit)
1 tbsp ginger garlic paste
¼ tbsp turmeric powder
1 tbsp red chili powder
1½ tbsp coriander powder
2 tbsp pepper powder
1 tsp meat masala
½ tsp garam masala
4-6 sprigs curry leaves
¼ cup coconut bites
a pinch of mustard seeds
salt (as required)
oil (as required)
Instructions
Clean and cut beef into cube shaped pieces (preferably soup cut).
Cook the beef in a pressure cooker with salt, pepper powder, meat masala, and a little water just enough to cover the meat. Pressure cook for 2 whistles and then remove the cooker from the flame. Allow it to rest until the pressure goes off. Keep aside.
Heat oil in a pan and splutter mustard seeds. Add curry leaves, sliced shallots, green chilies, and a little salt. Saute until the onions turn translucent.
Add ginger garlic paste, saute for a minute until the smell resides.
Add spice powders; chili, coriander, turmeric, garam masala, and mix well. Make sure to turn the heat to a low while adding the spice powders, so that it does not burn.
Remove the lid from the pressure cooker and transfer the cooked beef with the remaining water to the pan, mix well with the masala and cook on a medium flame until the gravy dries out. Stir the gravy occasionally while cooking, to prevent it from sticking to the bottom of the pan. Add salt as needed.
Meanwhile, heat a little oil in another pan and fry the coconut bites. As it starts to brown, add curry leaves and fry it along with the coconut bites until browned. Keep aside.
When the gravy dries out, reduce the flame to a low and saute the beef in the pan for 10-15 minutes. Add the fried curry leaves and coconut bites, and mix well together. Scrape the sides of the pan, toss until the meat is brown -black and dried out completely.
Serve hot with Rice, Porotta, Appam, Naan, or any other bread.