Recipes
Side Dish
Fries Recipes
French Fries Recipes
Homemade Crispy Seasoned French Fries
4.5
(903)
705 Reviews
92 Photos
My family loves seasoned fries and with 4 children the bag of fries from the store became too expensive. So I tried batter — after all, it makes chicken, shrimp, and onion rings crispy so why not potatoes! Now even my husband can't get enough of these French fries. They even stay crispy when you reheat them in the microwave.

By Cassie  Updated on April 5, 2023
 Tested by Allrecipes Test Kitchen
 Tested by
Allrecipes Test Kitchen
The Allrecipes Test Kitchen staff are a team of culinary pros who make and vet recipes using only equipment you'd find in a home kitchen. Staff credentials vary but include training at the Culinary Institute of America; kitchen stints in fine dining restaurants; and countless hours in the test kitchen itself.
Meet the Allrecipes Test Kitchen

Save

Rate
Print

Share
looking down at a large bowl of crispy, golden brown french fries



92

Prep Time:
15 mins
Cook Time:
10 mins
Total Time:
25 mins
Servings:
8
Jump to Nutrition Facts
Jump to recipe
Skip the drive-thru and make irresistible seasoned fries at home. This seasoned French fry recipe creates fries that are crispy on the outside, but fluffy and tender on the inside. 

How to Make Seasoned Fries
You'll find a detailed ingredient list and step-by-step instructions in the recipe below, but let's go over the basics:

Seasoning for French Fries
These savory homemade seasoned French fries are flavored with garlic salt, onion salt, paprika, and salt. 

How to Make Seasoned French Fries
Here’s a brief overview of what you can expect when you make seasoned fries at home: 

Slice the potatoes and place them in cold water to prevent browning. 
Sift the flour and seasonings, then gradually stir in water to make a batter.
Drain and dry the sliced potatoes, then dip in the batter. 
Fry the potatoes until golden brown and crispy. 
Seasoned French Fry Tips From an Expert
“The extra step of battering the fries adds so much flavor, this is a whole different French fry experience,” according to culinary producer Nicole McLaughlin. Here are a few of her favorite tips and tricks for making perfect seasoned fries: 

“I love using russet potatoes because they are the starchiest,” says Nicole. “They have the least amount of moisture, so when you fry them they’ll be crispy on the outside and fluffy on the inside.”
Drain the sliced potatoes on paper towels as well as you can before frying to ensure the crispiest texture. 
No thermometer? No problem. Test the oil’s temperature using the handle of a wooden spoon. If the bubbles crawl up the sides, the oil is ready for frying. 
How to Store Seasoned French Fries
Store your seasoned fries in an airtight container for up to five days. Avoid reheating them in the microwave. Opt for the oven, air fryer, or stove instead.  

Learn more: How to Reheat French Fries

Allrecipes Community Tips and Praise
I am the French fry hero of my family,” says Bart. “This recipe solves the soggy homemade fry problem. My family said these were probably the best fries they have ever had.”

“I made the recipe just like it said, but used my fryer,” according to Crystal. “I dropped the fries in one at a time, but then stirred around after a few seconds and they didn’t stick together.”

“Delicious and way better than fries at fast food places,” raves Kevin. “Quality fries that are restaurant level. I added basil and cayenne pepper to spice it up, but other than more spices, this works great!”

Editorial contributions by Corey Williams

Ingredients
2 ½ pounds russet potatoes, peeled

1 cup vegetable oil for frying

1 cup all-purpose flour

1 teaspoon garlic salt

1 teaspoon onion salt

1 teaspoon paprika

1 teaspoon salt

½ cup water, or as needed

Directions
Slice potatoes into French fries and place them into a large bowl of cold water to prevent them from turning brown.

Overhead of potatoes being sliced into french fries and placed in a bowl of cold water. 
Dotdash Meredith Food Studios
Heat oil in a heavy saucepan or large skillet to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).

While the oil is heating, sift flour, garlic salt, onion salt, paprika, and salt into a large bowl. Gradually stir in enough water to make a slightly thick batter that can be drizzled from a spoon.

Overhead of flour, garlic salt, onion salt, paprika, and salt being sifted into a bowl. 
Dotdash Meredith Food Studios
Overhead of french fry batter in a glass bowl. 
Dotdash Meredith Food Studios
Drain fries and pat dry; dip into the batter one at a time.

French fries being dipped into a batter in a glass bowl. 
Dotdash Meredith Food Studios
Lower fries carefully into the hot oil in batches to prevent them from clumping together. Fry until golden brown and crispy on all sides, about 7 to 10 minutes.

Overhead of fries cooking in oil on a skillet. 
Dotdash Meredith Food Studios
Drain fries on a paper towel-lined plate.

Freshly cooked French fries drying off on a paper towel. 
Dotdash Meredith Food Studios
Serve hot and enjoy!

looking down at a large bowl of crispy, golden brown french fries
DOTDASH MEREDITH FOOD STUDIOS 