Spicy Mutton Curry Recipe with step by step pictures. This is a very spicy and comforting curry added with coconut paste that thickens the gravy.

Pin

Spicy Mutton Curry

This is my go to mutton curry, it is simple to make doesn't need a whole lots of spices. Just basic but taste really yummy. I love these kind of dark colour curries with a thin layer of oil floating on the top. So yummy.

Similar Recipes,

Mutton Soy Sauce Roast
Mutton Roast
Rogan Josh
Chettinad Mutton Curry
Mutton Thoran
Mutton Dalcha
Lamb Masala

Ingredients for Spicy Mutton Curry
Mutton / Lamb - 500 grams
Oil - 4 tblspn
Onion - 2 large sliced thinly
Tomatoes - 2 large sliced thinly
Ginger Garlic Paste - 1 tblspn
Green Chillies - 3 slit
Kashmiri Chilli Powder - 2 tblpsn (if using normal chilli powder, use less)
Coriander Powder - 2 tblspn
Garam Masala Powder - 2 tsp
Salt to taste
Fresh Coconut - ¾ cup grated
Water as needed
Coriander Leaves a handful finely chopped
Pin
Hope you will give this a try and let me know how it turns out for you..
How to Make Spicy Mutton Curry
Heat oil in a pressure cooker. Add in onions and cook till golden.
Once the onion is nice and browned, add in ginger garlic paste and saute for a min or so.
Add in tomatoes and green chillies. Cook this till tomatoes cook down and turn mushy.
Add in all the spice powders and salt. Mix well with the masala. The masala should be thick and all most like a paste.
Now add in mutton and toss well with the masala.
Keep tossing till the masala coats the mutton pieces and the mutton gets little dark brown in colour.
Now add in very little water, say around a cup. Cover and pressure cook for 4 whistle, simmer the pan for 15 mins. Turn off the heat and let the steam go all by itself.
When the mutton is cooking, dry roast the coconut in a dry pan till it is golden brown. Remove it to a blender and make it into a fine puree.
Once the mutton is cooked, add the coconut paste in it and simmer for another 10 to 15 mins till oil separates on top.
Add in coriander leaves and turn off the heat.
Serve with rice or anything you like.
 
Pin
 
If you have any questions not covered in this post and if you need help, leave me a comment or mail me @aarthi198689@gmail.com and I’ll help as soon as I can.