Veg Momos Recipe | Momos Ki Recipe – Street Style
By Hebbars Kitchen -June 5, 20240
Veg Momos Recipe | Momos Ki Recipe | Momos Banane Ki Recipe with detailed photo and video recipe. Simple and healthy snack recipes inherited from traditional Nepali cuisine. It is plain flour-based dumplings steamed with cabbage, carrot, and spring onion stuffing. It has become a popular street food in India and is typically served with a red-colored spicy and watery momos chutney.
veg momos recipe

Table of Contents  hide 
1 About Veg Momos
2 Video Recipe
3 Recipe Card for Veg Momos
4 Ingredients 1x2x3x
5 How to Make Veg Momos with Step-by-step Photos
6 Notes
Veg Momos Recipe | Momos Ki Recipe | Momos Banane Ki Recipe with step-by-step photo and video recipe. India has generously embraced many of its neighboring countries’ recipes in its cuisine. Especially in urban locations, these alien recipes have been accepted as popular evening street food snacks. One such hugely popular street food snack is the momos recipe which can be done with myriad stuffing.
Momos recipe is very common in my house and I keep preparing it with a wide variety of stuffings. I end up making these cute-looking dumplings with any leftover dry sabzi. In addition, to make my life easier I do get a square-shaped momos sheet here in Asian supermarkets under the fridge section. So basically my job is to stuff the veggies shape them as required and steam them till they get cooked. But in this recipe, I have showcased both stuffing and momos sheets from scratch. Momos sheets can be overwhelming for a novice chef and hence you can opt for frozen momos sheets. But the stuffing is extremely simple and can be made in minutes.

momos ki recipe

The recipe for veg momos is extremely simple and easy to make, yet some tips and suggestions to make it better. Firstly, in this recipe, I have used plain flour sheets which have a sufficient amount of gluten making it ideal for this recipe. But this can be replaced with wheat flour to make it healthy and easily digestible. Secondly, the vegetable stuffing is completely open-ended and you can mix and match it with your choice. Ensure to finely chop the vegetables when using it. Lastly, you can extend the recipe by deep frying these steamed momos in hot oil. I like the deeply fried momos, as they are crispy and tastier.

